# X-RayNet: Classification of COVID-19, Viral and Bacterial Pneumonia through Chest X-Rays using Deep CNN

The outbreak of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), has been declared as a global pandemic by WHO which has cause nearly 1.4 million deaths worldwide. One of the key steps to curb the threat of COVID-19 epidemic is through rapid diagnosis, however, RT-PCR tests have been proven to have low sensitivity. In comparison diagnosis through chest X-rays have a higher sensitivity and are widely available. However, it is hard to diagnose COVID-19 from infections caused by other viral and bacterial pneumonia as they have overlapping similarities. In light of recent advances in Deep Neural Network approaches, the complex and unpredictable nature of human physiology has, in many circumstances, proven to be better described by these algorithms. In this study we propose an efficient workflow utilizing publicly available X-rays for training a deep CNN which can be used clinically to diagnose COVID-19. The first phase includes training the CXR images on our algorithm called X-rayNet which is built from structures incorporating depthwise convolution with varying dilation rates and traditional convolution layers. This trained algorithm incorporates its learning of X-rays on to classifying the testing samples of X-rays into multiclass predictions. The multiclass model had 97% accuracy while predicting COVID alongside an accuracy of 98% person to predict healthy chest X-Rays and has balanced accuracy of 84.5%. The model was able to differentiate and predict Viral and bacterial pneumonia with 70% and 71% respectively. The Binary Classifier model (COVID vs Non-COVID) was able to predict COVID with an accuracy of 98% which proves the effectiveness of the model against detecting subtle features in the images. Hence, the model built here can be used in different areas of study to analyze and capture subtle features in images.

